The project is to do research that how many people are suffering from depression. The app will be used to find whether there are chances that the user is suffering from depression or not and if he is, then he should consult a professional for help. The app will use ResearchKit, which was introduced by Apple in 2015 and is used to connect developers with researchers. Since then many applications have been developed which make use of ResearchKit in conducting different types of researches like fitness level and blood sugar level among people of different age groups etc. which can be very beneficial to reduce some of the health problems caused by these by creating awareness among people.

As explained in the WWDC event 2015, there are three modules used in ResearchKit, The first is the informed user consent i.e. that taking permissions from user to access their data after explaining to him why and where the data will be used. Taking consent includes entering the name and giving a signature which will be recorded in the application itself. The second module is to conduct a survey. In the survey, questions can be asked using different types of steps such as question step and form step. The data from these questions can be then retrieved in the form of JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) and using this data the reports can be generated. The third and the last module of the ResearchKit includes some user activity in which the user will be asked to do some activity which will also help in generating the reports and then providing data for the research. The phone sensors can also be used in recording some data from the activity for e.g. in a health tracking app, tracking the steps or the distance covered in a certain amount of time. 

In this project or app, the modules of ResearchKit will be implemented which will involve the user giving his consent to use his data for research purposes and taking part in a survey consisting of different questions which will be of different steps that is the question step and the form step. The questions will consist of multiple choice, Boolean or the rating questions in which the user will give rating from for e.g. 1 – 6 using the slider which will be provided in the app itself. All these tasks and questions will be implemented by the templates that ResearchKit provides us with. 
